The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland is situated on the British Isles. The British Isles consist of two large islands, Great Britain and Ireland, and above five thousand small islands. Their total area is over 244 000 square kilometers. The United Kingdom is made up of four countries: England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. Their capitals are London, Edinburgh, Cardiff and Belfast respectively.  The British isles are separated from the European continent by the North Sea and the English Channel. The western coast of Great Britain is washed by the Atlantic Ocean and the Irish Sea. The surface of the British Isles varies very much. The north of Scotland is mountainous and is called Highlands, while the south, which has beautiful valleys and plains, is called Lowlands. The north and west of England are mountainous, but all the rest - east, center and southeast - is a vast plain. Mountains are not very high. Ben Nevis is the highest mountain. (1343) There are a lot of rivers in GB, but they are not very long. The Severn is the longest river, while the Thames is the deepest and the most important one.  The UK is one of the world’s smallest countries. The population of the country is over 87 million and about 80% of it is urban. The UK is highly developed industrial country. It’s known as one of world’s largest producers and exporters of machinery, electronics, textile, aircraft and navigation equipment. The UK is constitutional monarchy. In law, the Head of State is the Queen, but in practice, the Queen reigns, but does not rule. The country is ruled by the elected government with the Prime Minister at the head. The British Parliament consists of two chambers: The House of Lords and the House of Commons.  There are three main political parties in Great Britain: the Labour, the Conservative and the Liberal parties. The Liberal party is the ruling party nowadays. I am going to tell you about English customs and traditions. First of all, it concerns United Kingdom political system. In Great Britain there is no written constitution, only customs, traditions and precedents. After the English Revolution of Great Britain is a constitutional monarchy headed by King (now Queen, Elizabeth the second). Traditionally the queen acts only on the advice of her Ministers. She reigns but she does not rule.  Englishmen have traditions not only in political, but in social life. For example, London, the capital of England, is traditionally divided into three parts: the West End, the East end, and the City. The City is a historical, financial and business center of London. The East End is the district inhabited by the workers, and the West End is a fashionable shopping and entertaining center. English people like to spend their free time in numerous pubs where they can have a glass of beer and talk about different things with their friends.  The English are traditional about their meals. They eat eggs and bacon with toasts for breakfast, pudding or apple pie for dessert. Every English family has five o'clock tea. A typical feature of an English house is a fireplace, even when there is central heating in the house.  English people like domestic animals. Every family has a pet: a dog, a cat or a bird.  Politeness is a characteristic feature of Englishmen. They often say "Thank you", "Sorry", "Beg your pardon". Russian people, I think, have to learn this good custom.  Englishmen have many traditional holidays, such as Christmas, St.Valentine's Day, Mother's day, Easter and others. Christmas Day is the holiday in Great Britain. It is a family holiday. Traditionally all friends give each other presents. Before Christmas all shops and supermarkets are crowded, everybody wants to buy a present.  People decorate their houses in the traditional way. Christmas trees are usually put up in houses. They are always decorated with light and angels. Little packets with nuts and candies are hung on the tree.  The Germans believe, that they were the first, who started celebrate Christmas and Martin Luther was the first, who put a tar on a top of a Christmas tree.  I love this Holiday. When I was a little girl, I believe at Santa Claus. I always wote letters to Santa Claus. Now, I don`t believe at Santa Claus, but I love this holiday.  On the Eve of the Christmas children hang their stockings, so that Santa Claus could put presents into them.  Santa Claus was a person whose name was St. Nicolas, who always gave presents to poor children. After he died, the Germans brought this legend to America. Soon, St. Nicolas became Santa Claus.  Carol singing is a traditional part of Christmas. In the evening children come to the door of a house and sing for a person who lives in this house. Then he or she gives children nuts and candies. If I live in Great Britain, I will sing that songs too.  So, Christmas is a lovely holiday for all the people in Great Britain. I love this wonderful holiday. Christmas is my lovely holiday in the world. I think that people in our world love this fantasticholiday too. The United Kingdom or The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland is the island state in the Western Europe.  The capital of Great Britain is London. It`s the cultural center of the country. There is an International London Heathrow Airport, a famous Tower Bridge over the river Thames, a Westminster Abbey, the National Gallery of Art and many other beautiful places to visit.  London is situated on the British islands and it is settled down on a zero meridian which is also called Greenwich.  The English sometimes call London The Big Smoke or The Great Smoke. They are about 60 million people living in Great Britain. Most of them are English, Scottish and Irish.  They also have many traditions, like wearing kilts in Scotland and cooking special food for festivals. They celebrate many events in different ways. But all the members of the family take part in it.  People in Great Britain are kind and polite.  Many famous people was born and lived in Great Britain.  William Shakespeare is one of them. He wrote many plays like "Romeo and Juliet", "Hamlet", "Macbeth" and others. Most of them are tragedies.  Shakespeare was born in 1564 and died in 1616. He lived in Stratford - on - Avon with his wife Anne Hathaway and his children.  The best writer of his time was as good actor as a writer. He appeared in his own plays at the Globe Theatre and other London theatres.  I know Great Britain is by the right considered The state of the future and I would like to go to London and see the most beautiful sights in the capital of this country. I hope my wish will come true. The British Isles haven't always been a separate part of Europe. Long time ago Britain was a part of the European continent. Then about ten thousand years ago during the end of the last Ice Age, when the climate grew warmer, new rivers and sees were formed Europe slowly moved into its present shape. The ancient people of Britain were simple hunters and ate flesh of animals fruits, nuts, honey. They fished, and gathered oysters. They didn't have a permanent place of living and traveled from place to place, sheltering in caves. Then the British men have become the farmers. The Stone Age farmer had the patches in the forests that covered most of Britain. He kept half-wild cattle and pigs in a forest and in Northern Scotland, free from forests, he kept sheep. By the end of the Stone Age (2000 BC) metal was already being used. It was time of the Invasion of Beaker people. They came from the Northern Europe. They used bronze and it was them, who started the building of Stone monuments at Stonehenge. Mining and trade were growing during the Bronze Age (ab. 2000-500 BC). About 500 BC British people were learning how to smelt iron. Iron tools had an advantage over bronze ones: they were much cheaper. The beginning of the Iron Age (ab. 400 BC) British Isles were invaded by Celts armed with weapons of iron. They conquered Kent and much of Southern England. They imposed their language on the natives, its Gaelic form was used in Ireland and Scotland, the Brythonic form - in England and Wales. It was the Brythonic tribe that gave its name to the whole country. The first chronicle of Britain was written by an educated merchant from Morsel. He also wrote the first description of the people, called Celts. He said they were a gentlefolk, skilled craftsman, who welcomed visitors. The most educated visitor of Britain described the British as a fierce race. His name was Julius Caesar. Present English dates back to 5th-6th centuries, when Germanic tribes of Jutes, Saxons & Angles overran all England except Cornwall & Cumberland. Some religious terms were borrowed from Latin in connection with converting England to Christianity by St. Augustin. Some parts of England were invaded by Danes & Norwegians, that's why the languages of the Anglo-Saxons & Danes formed the basis of English. Normans contributed greatly to the developing of English language during their invasion. Next point of this was the 15th-16th centuries when written language was stabilized with help of spreading of printing. In 19th century the growth of British colonial power led to the spread of English as world language. But still it was only the 1930 when the British Foreign Office stopped using French for all its official memoranda. So It was the long way of coming-to-be the language of international communication from old Anglo-Saxon dialects to the "world language" in 20th century. The climate in Great Britain is generally mild and temperate, due to the influence of the Gulf Stream. The southwestern winds carry the warmth and moisture into Britain. The climate in Britain is usually described as cool, temperate and humid. British people say: "Other countries have a climate, in England we have weather." The weather in Britain changes very quickly. One day may be fine and the next day may be wet. The morning may be warm and the evening may be cool. Therefore it is natural for the people to use the comparison "as changeable as the weather" for a person who often changes his or her mood or opinion about something. The weather is the favourite topic of conversation in Britain. When two Brits are introduced to each other, if they can't think of anything else to talk about, they will talk about weather. When two people meet in the street, they will often say something weather-related as they pass, just to show their friendliness. Every daily paper publishes a weather forecast. Both the radio and television give the weather forecast several times each day. The English also say that they have three variants of weather: when it rains in the morning, when it rains in the afternoon or when in rains all day long. Sometimes it rains so heavily that they say "It's raining cats and dogs". Rainfall is more or less even throughout the year. In the mountains there is heavier rainfall then in the plains of the south and east. The driest period is from March to June and the wettest months are from October to January. The average range of temperature (from winter to summer) is from 15 to 23 Celsius degrees above zero. During a normal summer the temperature sometimes rises above 30 degrees in the south. Winter temperatures below 10 degrees are rare. It seldom snows heavily in winter, and frost is rare. January and February are usually the coldest months, and July and August the warmest. Still the wind may bring winter cold in spring, or on summer days. Sometimes it brings whirlwinds or hurricanes. Droughts are rare. So, we can say that British climate has three main features: it is mild, humid and changeable. That means that it is never too hot nor too cold. Winters are extremely mild. Snow may come but it melts quickly. In winter the cold is a humid cold, not of the dry variety. This humid and mild climate pattern is good for plants. Trees and flowers begin to blossom early in spring. In British homes there has been no central heating up till recently. The fireplaces are often fired-up, but coal is not used as it's very expensive, so people use wood instead for fireplaces. Britain doesn't have any high-grade coal, and has to import it into the country. Many schools and universities don't have any central heating either, and the floors there are made of stone. The typical British bedroom is especially cold, and sometimes electric blankets or hotwater bottles are used. Britain was originally a land of vast forests, mainly oak and beech in the Lowlands and pine and birch in the Highlands, with broad stretches of marshland and smaller areas of moors. Over the course of time, much of the forest land was cleared and almost all Lowlands outside the industrial areas were cultivated. Today only about 6 per cent of the total land area remains wooded. Extensive forests remain in eastern and northern Scotland and in southeastern and western England. Oak, elm, ash, and beech are the commonest trees in England, while Scotland has a lot of pine and birch. The Highlands are largely moorland with heather, grasses and shallow soil. In the cultivated areas that make up most of Britain, there are many wild flowers, flowering plants and grasses. The fauna or animal life of Britain is much like that of northwestern Europe, which the UK used to be a part of. Many larger mammals such as bear and wolf have been hunted to extinction, while others are now protected by law. In addition, there are many foxes. Otters are common along rivers and streams, and seals live along much of the coast. Hedgehogs, hares, rabbits, rats and mice are numerous. Deer live in some of the forests in the Highlands of Scotland and England. Some 230 species of birds live in Britain, and another 200 varieties are regular visitors, many are songbirds. The most numerous are blackbirds, sparrow and starling. Robin Redbreast is the national bird of Britain. The number of ducks, geese and other water fowl has diminished during recent years. There are many threats to both the wildlife and ecological balance around the coast. The biggest threat to the coastline is pollution. Even much-loved Blackpool is not officially safe. More than 3.500 million tons of industrial waste is pumped into the North Sea every year. "We cannot continue to use our seas as a dustbin and expect our coastline to survive," says Greenpeace. Many other ecological problems may be caused by privatization of the coast. Many of the rivers are "biologically dead", and therefore unable to support fish and wildlife. The United Kingdom is very small compared with many other countries in the world. However there are only nine other countries with more people, and London is the world's seventh biggest city. When you travel about the country you can see how the scenery changes right in front of your eyes. Highlands turn into lowlands; forests and hills turn into meadows and plains very quickly. It's hard to believe, but in Great Britain one you can find practically any type of scenery. Britain is unusually beautiful country! England can be divided for four parts: the Southeast, the Southwest, East Anglia, the Midlands and the North of England. The Southeast is a highly populated region of England. London, the capital of the UK, and such historical cities as Windsor, Dover and Brighton are situated here. When people travel to Britain by sea or by air they usually arrive in the Southeast, for this is where the main passenger ports and airports are. Heathrow airport, one of the world's busiest airports is about 33 km west of central London. The Southwest is the region where the main activity is farming. The Southwest used to be known for its pirates. The two principal cities of the region are Bristol and Bath. If you want to see the famous Stonehenge you should also come here. The most westerly point of Great Britain "Land's End" is also in the Southwest. East Anglia is very flat and it is another farming region. It has beautiful cities with fine historic buildings such as Cambridge. It is more that half surrounded by the sea. The Midlands, known as the heart of England, is the largest industrial part in the country. The most important industrial cities are Manchester, Sheffield, Liverpool which is one of Britain's big ports, and Birmingham. The two famous. Midlands cities are Stratford-upon-Avon and Oxford. Stratford is the birthplace of William Shakespeare and Oxford is famous for its university. The North of England has some of the wildest and loneliest parts in the country. Here you can find deep valleys, rivers and waterfalls, hills and mountains. This part of the country is rich in coal. The main attractions of the North of England are certainly the Lake District, the cities of York and Newcastle-upon-Tyne. Foreigners have many ideas about what the English like. For example, some people say the English are always cold and reserved, this means that they don't talk much to strangers, and don't show much emotion. A reserved person never tells you anything about himself. But the people of the North and West of Britain are much less reserved than those of the South and East. Some believe the English eat porridge for breakfast and read The Times every day. Many Australians believe that the English always whine and call them "whining poms". The Welsh, Scottish and Irish also have a thing or two to say about what they think the English are like with reference to the British Empire. And, of course, the English themselves have plenty of ideas about what they are, such as being proud of having one of the oldest parliament in the world. English people are famous for their habit of politeness. It is considered polite to give up one's seat to a woman who is standing, to open a door for her, carry things for her, and so on. Most British people expect the person in front of them to hold the door open for them. People think you are rude, if you don't do this. Most British people queue when they are waiting for a bus or waiting to be served in a shop. But during the rush hour, when a bus or train arrives, people often push forward to make sure they get on. This is called jumping the queue. British people keep their old traditions and are very proud of them. They are famous for their sense of humour. English people show great love for animals. And, of course, English people are fond of sports. Many continentals think life is a game; the English think cricket is a game. To many Englishmen cricket is both a game and a standard of behaviour. When they consider something unfair, they say "That isn't cricket". The traditional love of English people for tea is well known. They like to drink tea with milk. They have their five-o'clock tea not only at home or in offices, but also in tea-rooms and tea-shops, which can be found in every town. A nation is born from its land, its history, its art, its traditions and its institutions. These things work together to make people what they are. But above all, a nation is made up of people, and although there are things they all share, all of those people are different. We can say there is still a "British nation," and one of the most characteristic features of Englishmen is their traditions, which they respect, and which they have kept for centuries. The traditions don't only accumulate the experience and wisdom of many generations, but they bring some stability into the rapidly changing world. Concerns to West-German group Indo-European of languages. In English speak and use in state office-work, literature and science, about 200 millions the person - in Great Britain and Ireland, in USA, Canada, Australia New of Zealand, partially in Southern Africa and India. One of five official and working languages accepted ÎÎÍ. The English language conducts the beginning from language Old German ïëåìåí, moved in V-VI centuries from continent in Britain. The complex interaction Old German tribe`s of adverbs brought in Britain, occupied celtes tribes, and formation, developing in conditions, English nationality, has resulted in formation territorial dialects on old tribe`s to a basis. Due to economic and political influence Wessecs kingdom in IX-X centuries in cultural life of England the greatest meaning has got wessecs a dialect.  The ambassador penetration into England in VI century of a christianity the latin alphabet has replaced Old German runes, and the influence of latin language was reflected in English lexicon. From subdual Anglosaxons celts of the population of Britain, thus, geographical names were kept. Forays Scandinavians, finished by submission of England in 1016 to the Danish king, have caused creation of Scandinavian settlements in the country. The interaction kindred of languages - English and Scandinavian - had an effect available in modern English language, significant quantity of words of a Scandinavian origin, and also some fanatical features describing dialects of northern England.  During formation a nation there was a formation of national English language developing on the basis of a London dialect, which combined in itself southern and western-central dialect features. The introduction in England book-printing (1476) promoted fastening to distribution of the London forms, to that popularity of product of a large writer D. Choler (1340-1400) writing on a London dialect has helped much.  In second half XVII century and especially in XVIII century is issued sets of managements on and normative grammar, which authors aspire to order grammatic norms of language: one - on the basis of rational grammar, others - proceeding from the alive use of the forms of language.  Colonians the expansion of England in XVII-XVIII centuries has caused distribution of English language outside Great Britain and has resulted in occurrence of some regional differences.  It is possible to explain differences of American variant of English language from British to that first settler in northern America of the profit from London and his vicinities, and laster were birthes from northern Great Britain and Ireland. The distinction between American and British variants of English language most of all has an effect in lexicon and somewhat in phonetics; difference in grammar insignificant As is known in Britain there exists the accepted code of behavior. This accepted code of behavior of the British people doesn't allow the straightforward expression of what they think and feel. In contrast to Russians who prefer directness, British people tend to understate things.  A conversation in English is full of hints, half tones and half-statements. British people will not particularly like to interfere in other people's affairs. They are known to have a cult of privacy. They generally tend to keep to themselves to hate to intrude in other people's privacy. For example, as a matter of fact, they don't particularly like to speak about their personal matters and interests and when they do, they always do it in an apologetic manner. In a conversation they mostly avoid direct questions and strong dogmatic ones, 'cause the culturally accepted code of behavior doesn't allow asking other people about their personal matters in a direct way.  So we see that the British are guided by the principal of non-interfering in other people's affairs. The British see self-possession as the highest quality of human character. They regard the free display of emotions as vulgar and antisocial. They value highly the ability to stay calm in all kinds of situations and leave things unsaid. In one word - British are extremely reserved people. They are also considered to be industrious, polite, tradition-loving, courteous, honest, extremely nationalistic and etc. They are known to have a specific sense of humor. To my mind their humor is delicate. England is a country of traditions and public holidays. The public holidays are: Christmas Day, Boxing Day, Good Friday, Easter, May Day, Spring Bank Holiday and Late summer holiday. January has a nice holiday New Year's Day. The most famous celebration is in Piccadilly Circus and Trafalgar Square in London. It is not widely celebrated in England; it is most popular in Scotland. February 14th is St Valentine's Day. On this day young people send cards or flowers to those whom they love. March 25th is s Mother's day' English people decorate their houses with flowers and cook a nice holiday dinner. On the morning of the 1st of April the English people play funny tricks. Most newspapers have at least one unlikely story. May Day is celebrated on the first Monday in May. It is a spring holiday of flowers, dancing and games. Halloween takes place on the 31st of October. At parties people dress up in strange costumes and pretend they are witches. They cut horrible faces in pumpkins and put a candle inside. The 5th of November is Gue Fawkes Night. In 1605 King James the First was on the throne. Some catholics planned to blow up the Houses of Parliament. Gunpowder was to be exploded by a man called Guy Fawkes. But he was discovered, arrested and later hanged. Since that day the British celebrate the 5th of November by burning a dummy. On the 11th of November all English people remember those who died in the two world wars, in churches special services are held. Christmas Day is on the 25th of December. Families decorate their houses with brightly coloured paper or holly, and they usually have a Christmas tree. with Christmas but perhaps the most important one is giving of presents. Family members leave gifts at the bottom a Christmas tree on Christmas Eve, 24th of December be found in the morning. 26th of December is Boxing Day. People visit friends and relatives or watch one of the many sporting events. At Easter, the British celebrate the new birth of Christ. On Good Friday bakers sell hot cross buns, which are toasted and eaten with butter. Easter Monday is a holiday and some people travel to the seaside for the day. London is the capital of the United Kingdom, its economic, political and cultural center. It is one of the world's most important ports and one of the largest cities in the world. London with its suburbs has a population of about 11 million people. London has been a capital for nearly a thousand years. Many of its ancient buildings still stand. The most famous of them are the Tower of London, Westminster Abbey and St. Paul's Cathedral. Most visitors also want to see the Houses of Parliament and the many magnificent museums. Once London was a small Roman town of the north bank of the Thames. Slowly it grew into one of the world's major cities. Different areas of London seem like different cities. The West End is a rich man's world of shops, offices and theatres. The City of London is the district where most offices and banks are concentrated; the Royal Exchange and the Bank of England are here, too. The East End is a district where mostly working people live. The old port area is now called "Docklands". There are now new office buildings in Docklands, and thousands of new flats and houses. By the day the whole of London is busy. At night, offices are quiet and empty, but the West End stays alive, because this is where Londoners come to enjoy themselves. There are two opera houses here, several concert halls and many theatres, as well as cinemas. In nearby Soho the pubs and restaurants and nightclubs are busy half the night. Englishmen say 'There is no bad weather, there are bad clothes', It means that they like all the seasons, all kinds of weather. Every season is good in its own way. Each person likes this or that season. It depends on his character, mood. They say that Pushkin liked autumn very much. This season is full of colours, bright and tasty. The sky is blue, but sometimes grey clouds appear. The sun shines but it begins to hide behind the clouds. Its rays are not so warm. Autumn is full of vegetables and fruit, mushrooms and berries. There is nothing like Indian summer in autumn. As for me, I like to walk on the carpet of bright leaves listen to the last songs of birds flying to warm countries, look at the nature. It is like a fairy-tale. It fades away and nothing can be done. Soon drizzling rains will begin and everything will be dull and sad. But still I like autumn.  Winter in Usinsk is long and severe with dark nights, bitter wings and hard frosts. Even sometimes you can see a quiet winter frosty day. It is snowing. Fluffy soft snowflakes are falling to the ground making a beautiful thick carpet. The icecles glitter in the sun the snow sparkles like diamond. Going outdoors in such weather is pleasant. Many people go to the forests and enjoy sledging and skiing, playing snowballs and making a snowman.  As for spring, people in Usinsk long for it and dream about it during long winter days. It comes late but suddenly. I don't like it because my town becomes grey. But spring is the beginning of new life. Nature awakens from its long winter sleep. The trees begin to bud and soon tiny green leaves will appear. Young green grass appear, fruit trees begin to blossom. Everything looks magic covered with green carpet. Nature looks full of promise.  I like summer because we have holiday and enjoy resting after school year.  In my opinion every season is beautiful and attractive. As one famous poet said: 'I see no reason to speak in prize of any season'. Some people criticize English food. They say it's unimaginable, boring, tasteless, it's chips with everything and totally overcooked vegetables. The basic ingredients, when fresh, are so full of flavour that British haven't had to invent sauces to disguise their natural taste. What can compare with fresh pees or new potatoes just boiled and served with butter? Why drown spring lamb in wine or cream and spices, when with just one or two herbs it is absolutely delicious? If you ask foreigners to name some typically English dishes, they will probably say "Fish and chips" then stop. It is disappointing, but true that, there is no tradition in England of eating in restaurants, because the food doesn't lend itself to such preparation. English cooking is found at home. So it is difficult to a good English restaurant with a reasonable prices. In most cities in Britain you'll find Indian, Chinese, French and Italian restaurants. In London you'll also find Indonesian, Mexican, Greek... Cynics will say that this is because English have no "cuisine" themselves, but this is not quite the true. There exist some very unusual traditions in Great Britain. One of them is Town Crier’s Rivalry. Town criers from all parts of the country gather at Hastings, Sussex, in August for the National Town Crier’s Championship. For the contest they wear their traditional ceremonial uniforms and carry their handbells. A procession headed by the Hastings band marches to an arena where the Mayor, members of town council and civil officials greet them. To enable the judges to determine who possesses the most powerful voice the competitors are rowed to a small island about 75 yards from them. From this little island they one by one make their cries and declaim a 150- word test piece. Another curious tradition reminds us of our country. Fun and jokes are very common on April Fool’s Day. In Scotland an old name for April Fool is April-cuckoo. For some reason the cuckoo is a symbol for daftness. The return of the cuckoo and the arrival of spring are connected with all this fooling. Still another interesting tournament is the Veteran Car Run. The veteran cars are set out on the London — Brighton run each November. There is a condition — every car taking part must be at least 60 years old. The London — Brighton ride is not a race. Participants are limited to a maximum average speed of 20 miles per hour. At 8 o’clock comes the “Off”. The main things in this tournament are the cars that represent the history of the country. Great Britain is a highly developed industrial country, and most of the people live in large cities. Naturally, the capital comes first among the biggest industrial cities of the country. Lots of things such as clothes, food, planes and cars are made in London. Birmingham is the biggest town in the centre of England. Machines, cars and lorries are made here. TV- and radio-sets are also produced in Birmingham. Manchester is an industrial capital of the North of England. It is a very old city. It is the centre of cotton industry. Manchester was the first city in Great Britain to build an airport in 1929. Manchester has many libraries, museums, art galleries and theatres. Edinburgh is the capital of Scotland. It is one of the most beautiful cities in Europe. Its main attractions are the Floral clock made of growing flowers, and the Edinburgh Art Festivals, the annual summer performances of operas, dancing, music and drama. Glasgow is another great Scottish city. It is famous for its shipyards. Glasgow is a great industrial city and also the centre of Scottish culture. Cardiff is the capital of Wales.It is a big port and ships come here from all over the world. Cambridge and Oxford are the oldest university towns in Great Britain. Many great men studied in these universities: Cromwell, Newton, Byron, Darwin and others. Almost every nation has a reputation of some kind. The English are reputed to be cold and reserved. In reality they are steady, easy-going and fond of sport. But these statements can't be universal. Great Britain consists of England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. Inhabitants of all these parts have a lot of differences. For example, the Scots are not English. The Scots are thought to be kind, but at first glance they are not so amiable. They don’t like to compromise, lean much upon logic and run much to extremes. The Scots are more extravagant, their traditions are more colourful and exciting.The Gaelic language and songs, the tartan, the bagpipes are completely Scottish. There is no other part of the British Isles where national spirit is stronger, national pride more intense and national traditions more appreciated than in Wales. The Welsh still wear proudly their national dress on holidays. The Welsh language is still very much a living force and is taught side by side with English at schools. Welshmen, who have a highly developed artistic taste, have contributed heavily to poetry, songs and drama. The national Welsh Eisteddfod is devoted to music, literature and the arts. It is a competitive festival and is held in the first week of August. Prizes are awarded for music, prose and verse, painting and drama. Many thousands of people attend it every year. The main difference between the Irish and the British is their religion. But there are some things that unite them all together. One of them is gardening. The love of gardens is deeply rooted in all the British people. You will seldom see a suburban garden neglected. Britain is also a nation of animal lovers. Every family has a pet, which is paid much attention to. With the exception of breakfast meals in England are much the same as in other countries. The usual meals in Great Britain are breakfast, lunch, tea and dinner. The English are very fastidious about their meals and keep to their meal times strictly. Breakfast time is between 7 and 9 a. m. Many people like to begin it with porridge. English people eat porridge with milk or cream and sugar, but the Scots — and Scotland is the home of porridge — never put sugar in it. Then comes bacon and eggs, marmalade with toast and tea or coffee. For a change you can have a boiled egg, cold ham or perhaps fish. The two substantial meals of the day, lunch and dinner, are more or less the same. Lunch is usually taken at one o’clock. Many people, who go out to work, find it difficult to come home for lunch and go to a caffee or a restaurant, but they never miss a meal. Lunch is a big meal — meat or fish, potatoes and salad, puddings or fruit are quite usual for it. In the afternoon, about four o’clock, the English have a cup of tea and a cake, or a slice or two of bread and butter. Tea is very popular with the English; it may be called their national drink. The English like it strong and fresh made. Tea must be brewed as follows: one teaspoon for each person and one for the pot. They drink it with or without sugar, but almost always with milk. It is important to pour tea into milk, and not vice versa. Their “high tea” at 5 o’clock is very famous. Tea is accompanied by ham, tomatoes and salad, bread and butter, fruit and cakes. Dinnertime is generally about half past seven or later. In some houses dinner is the biggest meal of the day. They begin with soup, followed by fish, roast chicken, potatoes and vegetables, fruit and coffee. But in great many English homes the midday meal is the chief one of the day, and in the evening they only have light meal, for example, bread and cheese and a cup of coffee or cocoa and fruit. The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland occupies the territory of the British Isles. They lie to the north-west of Europe. Once upon a time the British Isles were an integral part of the mainland. As a result of sinking of the land surface they became segregated. Great Britain is separated from the continent by the English Channel. The country is washed by the waters of the Atlantic Ocean. Great Britain is separated from Belgium and Holland by the North Sea, and from Ireland — by the Irish Sea. There are several islands along the coasts. The total area of the British Isles is 325 000 km2. The main islands are Great Britain and Ireland. The surface of the country is much varied. Great Britain is the country of valleys and plains. The mountains in Britain are not very high. Scotland is the most mountainous region with the highest peak, Ben Nevis. The insular geographical position of Great Britain promoted the development of shipbuilding, different trading contacts with other countries. It has also allowed the country to stay independent for quite a long period of time. The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland is situated on the British Isles. They lie to the north-west of Europe. The British Isles are separated from the continent by the narrow strait of water which is called the English Channel.  The United Kingdom consists of four parts: England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. England, the central part, occupies the most of the island of Great Britain. To the north lies Scotland and to the west the third part of the country, Wales, is situated. The fourth part is called Northern Ireland and is located on the second island. Each part has its capital. The capital of England is London, Wales has Cardiff, Scotland has Edinburgh and the main city of Northern Ireland is Belfast.  Great Britain is a country of forests and plains. There are no high mountains in this country. Scotland is the most mountainous region with the highest peak, Ben Nevis. The rivers of Great Britain are not long. The longest rivers are the Thames and the Severn. The capital of the United Kingdom, London, stands on the banks of the Thames. As the country is surrounded by many seas there are some great ports at the seaside: London, Glasgow, Plymouth and others.  Wales is a country of lakes.  Seas and oceans influence the British climate which is not too cold in winter but never hot in summer. Great Britain is a beautiful country with old traditions and good people. 